[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Is there
an underlying agenda here?
>>JASON BICKFORD: I do believe
that if there is an agenda,
it's something that has more
of a spiritual explanation.
That we're maybe
tapping into a higher
self or a universal mind.
There's a saying in
the Gospel of Thomas
where Christ says, let
one seek until one finds.
When you find,
you'll be troubled.
After you're troubled, you
will be amazed or in awe,
and then you will
reign over all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NOORY: Well, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Jason James Bickford with
us, an esoteric researcher,
visual artist, and
independent media producer.
Jason, welcome to the program.
>>BICKFORD: Thanks
for having me, George.
>>NOORY: What exactly is
an esoteric researcher?
>>BICKFORD: Well, I
found myself always
to be a curious person
interested in science.
I had an aptitude
in mathematics,
and I gravitated towards
that when I was in school.
I was also a creative person
with an active imagination.
I love to make visual art.
And what I found was,
the worlds were merging,
I'd say, some time
in high school.
>>NOORY: For you personally?
>>BICKFORD: For me personally, I
had maybe a bit of a contrarian
or skepticism in my nature.
So I would question the way
the world was, and at times, I
found my creative imagination
explaining things better
than some of the narratives that
I was getting from particularly
the materialist,
scientific worldview that I
had held at the time.
So I would have
identified myself
as an atheist, a skeptic,
and a materialist.
And yet, my imagination
and my love for art,
literature, poetry, pointed
me in a different direction.
And I felt like
there was something
true to the core of
the creative work
that I was engaged with
that wasn't explained
by the materialist background
that I had immersed myself in.
And so, I began looking
for alternative answers.
>>NOORY: Did you feel like
you were missing something?
>>BICKFORD: I did, yes.
It's curious that I
found myself as maybe
a bit of a snarky skeptic.
I was mad at God but also
didn't believe in a God.
There was other kinds of
cognitive dissonance embedded
in my two loves that didn't
seem compatible for a while.
>>NOORY: Mad at God, but
you didn't believe in God.
>>BICKFORD: Yes.
>>NOORY: How did
those two combine?
>>BICKFORD: Well, I think
the world, as I entered
adolescence, didn't seem to be
the way I expected it to be,
and I was looking
for someone to blame.
>>NOORY: Would you
consider yourself a Gnostic
spiritualist?
>>BICKFORD: Now I would say
that I'm a Gnostic Christian.
>>NOORY: And exactly
what is that?
>>BICKFORD: Well, the
Gnostics were a part
of early Christian movements.
Theologians and
scholars have found
that there was a great
variety of Christian movements
in the early centuries, and
the Gnostics took a kind of--
well, a skeptic look at the
dogma of the church, which
tried to label them heretics.
>>NOORY: With an
open mind, though?
>>BICKFORD: Yes, they
had an open mind.
>>NOORY: --open mind?
>>BICKFORD: They saw that
the world they embodied
was open for
interpretation and also
a place for what I would call
co-creation, in which allegory
and parables embedded
in the scriptures
were entry points into a kind
of co-creative participation
that was frowned upon.
The Gnostics felt that
there was a spirituality
to be gained on a one-on-one
basis that was outside
of the dogmatic hierarchy of
a state-sponsored, militarized
church.
And so, I think the label of
heretics came because they--
well, you can't herd cats.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>BICKFORD: Yeah.
The Gnostics were kind of
like spiritual cat people.
They preferred to have their
experiences one-on-one.
Although they were
active in the church,
they would often interpret
some of the allegory symbolism
in their own personal way.
So it was hard to pick
out in the early church
who was a Gnostic,
and who was not.
There was kind of like a
precursor to the witch hunts.
>>NOORY: You produced a clip
of predictive programming
that was done in Hollywood,
and it's pretty fascinating.
>>BICKFORD: I'd like
to introduce you
to the concept of precognition
in the film, "Back
to the Future," specifically
warnings of terrorism
embedded in co-creation.
Now, the infamous clock
tower features prominently
in the plot of the
film, and Marty McFly,
at the beginning of
the film, is urged
to donate to save
the clock tower.
They're thinking of
getting rid of it.
It was struck by
lightning in the '50s.
So Marty goes back 30 years
from the '80s to the '50s.
And he's trying to help Doc
Brown finish a time machine,
so that he can get back home.
He wants to tell Doc Brown about
what's going on 30 years ahead
in the 1980s.
I have to tell you
about the future,
he yells to Doc
Brown at the tower.
Now in this scene, after
Marty travels through time,
right in front of the
theater on the marquee,
it says, the atomic kid.
Above that, we could read
this symbolically as Beantown,
and that's a
nickname for Boston.
So I'm reminded of the
Boston Marathon bombing.
There's a finish line where
Marty disappears in a blast.
We've got the atomic head
finish line, Beantown,
7/7 on the ground, as well as
a symbolic 9/11 Western Auto.
So I'm thinking the West being
West of the UK, the London
underground, taxicabs on fire.
So symbolically, we have
the underground taxi
or the subway of 7/7 attack
above and to the West.
We have Western Auto
as a number nine
and then the 11, so that's 9/11.
And in the background
later on is Beantown.
Boston Marathon at the
finish line of this event.
That's symbolically three
terror events predicted
in one scene of the film.
If it was just that
one scene, I would
think it's a weird coincidence,
but the film and the trilogy
are loaded with 9/11
symbolism and other forms
of precognition.
This is just a short sample,
but pictographically,
through icons, through
symbols, as well as
through the plot points.
Like here, Doc Brown is murdered
by Middle Eastern extremists.
So in a number of
different ways,
this film is letting us know
that it's 30 years ahead.
Just like Marty McFly's
warning to Doc Brown,
I have to tell you
about the future,
the film is screaming
to us, I have
to tell you about the future.
>>NOORY: I love that movie.
Now, these symbols
that were in there
about things that would
happen eventually.
How did Hollywood
know about this?
Or was it just accidental?
>>BICKFORD: I first
thought that there
might be an intent behind
this, and my understanding
of how this symbolism
and precognition works
has expanded over the years.
And I believe that there's
something I would refer
to as a co-creative faculty in
which human beings are tapping
into information, data--
>>NOORY: And they
might not even know it?
>>BICKFORD: They might
not even know it.
I don't think that
you have to have
a conscious, articulated
knowledge that you're
putting this kind of symbolism
in any kind of creative work.
We can find it in artwork,
literature, poetry,
particularly in Hollywood.
I don't think that the
entire crew or just Bob Gale
and Robert Zemeckis,
who made the film,
were consciously
trying to warn us.
But I do believe that some
people have a little bit more
of a faculty with precognition,
and they can unconsciously--
I would say it maps onto what
Carl Jung was talking about,
the collective unconscious.
There's possibly
intelligence that we're
tapping into that can
manifest itself in symbol
and as well as story
and plot points.
That was just a taste
of it, but the internet
was abuzz in the wake of
the events of September
11th in 2001 with
media across the board
from comic books, and
cartoons, and album cover art,
and Hollywood.
I'm sure you're familiar
with the show, "The X-Files."
in 2001, there was a spinoff.
There was a spinoff show with
characters from "The X-Files"
called "The Lone Gunman,"
and in their pilot episode,
the plot of the show was
terrorists hijack a plane
and fly it into
the trade towers.
And that aired, I believe,
six months before the events,
and, obviously, conspiracy
theorists go crazy
with this kind of information.
>>NOORY: Well, you
don't know, Jason,
if that film gave the
terrorists the idea.
Who knows, right?
>>BICKFORD: It's
really something
we can only speculate about.
And that's what
my work is about,
trying to make sense of various
forms of precognition embedded
in media, and how
it can come about.
>>NOORY: What is the
unified code theory?
>>BICKFORD: So the
unified code theory
is a name I've given to a
group of intellectual ideas
that are trying to
explain phenomenon
like predictive programming,
and how it works.
And as I said, I was
very much interested
in science and mathematics.
I had an aptitude for
pattern recognition,
and probabilities,
and statistics.
And so, I've tried to take all
of these seemingly disparate
lines of thinking and come up
with a kind of holistic theory
as to what the source
of this information
is that could provide
this precognition,
and how it manifests
itself in what I would
call co-creative human output.
>>NOORY: Is there an
underlining agenda here?
>>BICKFORD: At first,
I was a little bit more
prone to the conspiracy
theory thinking
that there could be a
nefarious agenda that
involved a very large network of
people with a conscious intent.
And now, I've come to
realize that to pull
that off seems almost
impossible, and what I do--
although I do believe there's
corruption in the world.
I believe that
much of this comes
from something
that has more to do
with tapping into information.
Very often, artists
and creators are,
let's say, getting
inspiration, and they
don't have a fully
articulated explanation
for why did you choose this,
or that, or the other thing?
I do believe that if
there is an agenda,
it's something that has more
of a spiritual explanation.
That we're maybe tapping into a
higher self or a universal mind
that exists outside of
our physical limitations
of time and space.
And therefore, could
access future outcomes
or potentialities.
>>NOORY: In your
research, where does God
come into this picture?
>>BICKFORD: Well, I believe
in the Christian concept
that God is
ultimately ineffable.
So at times, the less I say
about God's intent is maybe
best.
However, if I see God
as a creative force that
is behind the universe,
I don't see God
as the proverbial
blind watchmaker who
set up a mechanized universe.
And then just set it in
motion, and we're off
on a spinning marble.
in nowhere.
Right.
I see God as an intelligence
and a creative force
that is consciously breathing
life into our world,
and I don't see the
world as cold matter
but more as something
that's generated
from our consciousness.
So you and I are
collectively all
of us generating the
world that we exist in,
and it's more like an
interactive lucid dream
world in which
we're participating
with a creative faculty
that's ultimately
mysterious but
leaves fingerprints
all over the place.
>>NOORY: Jason, what is the
Christian simulation theory?
What is that?
>>BICKFORD: I kind of came up
with some ideas that I thought
were original only to
find that Philip K Dick
in the '70s, the famous
science fiction writer--
>>NOORY: Genius.
Great writer.
>>BICKFORD: He
floated the concept
of this kind of proto-simulation
theory existence,
but he also filtered it
through an understanding
of Christian
scripture in which he
felt that we're in
an interactive world
in which we're kind of like
avatars of a higher self.
That's like a video
game character,
and there's a higher
self at the controls.
And we're kind of in a choose
your own adventure novel.
>>NOORY: Who made the
video game, right?
>>BICKFORD:
Ultimately, that might
be something that isn't answered
for us in our physical lives.
But I do believe
that we can learn
about the nature of the
creative force behind things
by taking a look
at what's created.
>>NOORY: Precognition.
How does that relate
to what you do?
>>BICKFORD: Well, there's
been a lot of interesting work
in precognition.
It's been proven that
humans and some animals
have a kind of ability to know
before they know things that
happen from predictive dreams.
You even mentioned in an
interview with Julia Mossbridge
that your daughter had a
precognitive dream that
seemed to heavily
embed symbolism
for the events of
September 11th.
>>NOORY: As a matter
of fact, let's
take a look at a clip
with Julia Mossbridge.
My daughter had a feeling
of 9/11 during 2001.
She called me up one day
before it happened and said,
dad, I just had this
feeling, this dream
that I was walking
in this major city,
and dust particles are
coming down on me like crazy.
And I could look
down at my feet,
and I was in six inches of ash.
What do you think that was?
And I'm thinking, gosh, is there
a volcano around a major city?
Maybe it was in Europe.
I don't know what it was,
and then two weeks later, she
calls me up in the
morning and said,
dad, dad-- because I work late.
Wake up.
Turn on your television.
You won't believe this.
And I did and saw the planes
hitting one of the towers.
And then we both
realized her dream
was that because as we looked
at the pictures of the rubble
coming down, and the
ash floating down,
and firemen in six
inches of this stuff,
that's what she was in.
She saw that.
How does that happen?
Now that's precognition.
>>JULIA MOSSBRIDGE: So what
we know about precognition
is that decades of
scientific evidence
show that it does happen
at a rate above chance,
and the question
of how it happens
is what I'm pursuing in my life.
I mean, so it's not
known, and that's
what I'm trying to figure out.
So I can't answer
that question, but I
can say that there's something
that has to do with the mind.
And we often think
of the mind as
being exactly
equal to the brain,
but that's sort of
the mainstream view.
And yet, there's many
reasons as you know to not
think that that's the case.
So there's many reasons
to think that there's
this thing called mind that
is different from the body.
And it relates to the body,
but it's not in there.
And this thing
called mind, I think,
doesn't have a sense
of time the way
the body has a sense of time.
So this thing that we call our
mind, it doesn't have any mass.
It doesn't take up space.
It doesn't need energy.
It's informational.
It's like information, and so,
it can be anywhere in time.
So it can spend its whole
existence on Thursday
at 2:00 PM.
>>NOORY: Right.
Well, think of this as
Wi-Fi, and it's out there.
You don't see it,
but it's there.
But we tap into it.
Isn't that a little
possibility that when
we tap into precognition
that it's out there?
Wherever it is, and
whatever it might be?
But we hit the
wireless internet,
and we connect with it.
>>MOSSBRIDGE: Yeah,
maybe so, and that
would explain why you
see these oscillations
in performance even
of the people who
are very, very skilled.
It just never straight line.
And so, it almost reminds
me of radio waves.
I mean, it's not
surprising that we
created radios that use
radio waves if, in fact, we
are tapping into
something like that.
>>NOORY: My daughter
subsequently told me, Jason,
that she knew she was in
New York during that dream.
It's truly remarkable.
>>BICKFORD: It is.
It's mysterious.
I believe that there's
a number of people
like Ms. Mossbridge
and others that
are looking into human's
capacity for precognition,
and I believe that there's
hard science, as well
as spiritual
concepts, that can be
merged in a holistic vision of
what's exactly going on here.
>>NOORY: What can you tell
us about Owen Barfield
and his thoughts
of consciousness?
>>BICKFORD: So Owen Barfield
coined this term fossils
of consciousness.
He was known as one
of the inklings.
He was a good friend of
JRR Tolkien and CS Lewis.
They met in a pub
out in Cambridge,
and Owen Barfield's
actually credited
with being the friend, one
of the best friends of CS
Lewis, a famous Christian
apologist who began his college
education as a skeptic
and an atheist.
And it was Owen Barfield who--
>>NOORY: And then changed.
Yeah.
>>BICKFORD: Owen Barfield
convinced CS Lewis
that the mythologies and
the literature that he
was in love with and the
power of the imagination
was not necessarily in conflict
with his scientific worldview.
And he helped him embrace
what would later become
his Christian understanding.
The fossils of
consciousness is a term
that Owen Barfield used to
describe our relationship
with language, and it was
Owen Barfield's belief
that if we look at etymology
and the relationship
that, say, the ancient Hebrews
or the Greeks who wrote the New
Testament had, their
relationship with language
described a world that revealed
their change in consciousness.
There was an evolution
in our consciousness,
and the etymology
and use of language
is like a fossil or a remnant of
a former type of consciousness
that we had.
I'll give you one example.
The Hebrew word for wind,
and spirit, and breath
is all one word.
It's ruach, and it's
the same in Greek.
The word is pneuma.
>>NOORY: Pneuma.
>>BICKFORD: And the
people that were writing
either the Old Testament
or the New Testament,
when they would describe
a wind blowing, they
had an understanding
that this was not
just material floating
through the air in just
a materialist view.
But that there was this holistic
and spiritual understanding
of a relationship
with the world.
God was seen as in the
Old Testament embodied
in Mount Zion.
It was an external force
that we interacted with,
and this becomes an interior
relationship in the New
Testament through Jesus.
So when we're
breathing the spirit
or feeling the wind
breath, it's part
of a co-creative and
participatory experience
in a world that's
interconnected.
And we've lost some
of that connection,
and now we have different
words for these things that
were seen as more unified.
>>NOORY: In the
Book of Revelation,
it talks about the
Mark of the Beast 666.
What does that mean to you?
>>BICKFORD: Yes.
Well, we're told in
the Book of Revelation
that the number of Man and
the number of Beast is 666.
So I found some
interesting patterns
that overlap with
biological chemistry here
and an understanding of
spirits in the underworld.
Now, the carbon atom,
when it's stable,
has six protons, six
neutrons, and six electrons.
And we live in a world
where all living organisms
are carbon-based
life forms, so we
could say that the number of
Man and the number of Best
is six protons, six
neutrons, six electrons.
The carbon atom.
And now, the Jews
had an understanding
of not so much a Hell,
but an underworld
where spirits resided until
a judgment was enacted.
>>NOORY: A lower plane?
>>BICKFORD: And that
was called the Sheol,
and it's very often illustrated
by the ancient Hebrews
as this dark pit
under the ground.
And now, we live in a world
in which we have some problems
with fossil fuel usage.
We're drilling down
into the underground
to pull up this black tar,
which is largely carbon,
and we're burning it up and
spewing it into the atmosphere.
And we're in a world now that's
undergoing a cultural climate
change, and this could be
seen as symbolically mapping
onto the Mark of
the Beast, or 666,
being removed from the Sheol
and put into the atmosphere.
Which we breathe through
our breath, which
is known as pneuma or
ruach, which is spirit.
So Owen Barfield would
have a field day with this.
>>NOORY: Rupert Sheldrake
talks about morphogenic fields.
Regina Meredith
interviewed him on Gaia,
and they discussed that.
>>RUPERT SHELDRAKE:
The morphogenetic field
contains attractors.
That's one way in
which the fields work.
They contain, as it
were, future goals.
So the morphogenetic field
contains the plan or form
of the mature frog,
and when the baby
frog-- the tadpole's
turning into a baby frog,
it's being attracted
towards that form.
So that's how the field works.
It's not like a
static blueprint.
It's more like an
attractor towards
a particular final form.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
And within this,
when you're looking at it from
more of a universal principle,
it appears that cosmically,
all of these expressions
have a tendency toward
establishing order.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes, all these
what we see in evolution
is the appearance of
more and more order.
At the moment of
the Big Bang, there
was just an amorphous mass
of energy and potentiality.
There was no structure.
It was far too hot.
And as the universe
expands and cools,
more structures and
forms become possible.
If you think about it, the
amount of structure you get
is less when it's hotter
and more when It's cooler.
A snowflake has more
structure than water vapor
in the atmosphere.
So as you cool things down,
as the universe cooled,
more structure became possible.
What it means in effect
is that every species
has a collective memory.
Every individual draws
upon it and tunes into it,
and it's a collective
memory of form
involved in shaping the embryo
and the growth of the animal
or plant.
And also, collective
memory of behavior
in the case of animals, which
underlies their instincts.
Instincts are like
habits of the species.
A young spider can spin
a web without having
to learn it, or go to web
workshops, or anything.
Just instinctively,
it knows what
to do without any
training, and it's
a kind of memory of the
webs that its ancestors
have spun before.
So that's the theory
in a nutshell,
and it's rather like Jung's idea
of the collective unconscious
as a collective human memory.
And it's not just organisms.
This applies to crystals, too.
It means that when
compounds crystallize
for the first time, the
more often they crystallize,
the easier the crystals
should get to form.
It's easier to make them,
and that's actually true.
It also means in the
realm of animal behavior,
if animals learn a new trick
in one place like rats,
if they learn a new
trick in London,
then rats all over the world
should learn the same thing
quicker thereafter just because
the rats here have learned it.
So this theory makes
quite a few predictions.
Many of them have been
tested, and the tests
suggest it's really happening.
So it's controversial,
obviously,
because it's not the way
most scientists think.
>>NOORY: What a
deep thinker, Jason.
Deep thinker.
>>BICKFORD: Now, Dr. Sheldrake
has been putting forth
these ideas about
morphic resonance
in the morphogenetic field
for over 40 years now.
And a number of skeptics
have tried to debunk them,
and they haven't had any luck.
They haven't had any luck.
>>NOORY: They can't do it.
This information, how do we
use it in our day-to-day life/
>>BICKFORD: Well,
I was fascinated
to find from Dr. Sheldrake
that DNA doesn't have body
plans for animals and humans.
It's more of a parts list.
And it almost seems
like not only are there
patterns in memory, but
there's an interactive field
that could be the
source of adaptation
as well as the body
plan development.
And I see this as
a road into what
I call the co-creative
faculty, the source
of the co-creative
faculty, and precognition.
I think that Sheldrake's ideas
and Julia Mossbridge's ideas,
and the phenomenon of
patterns and precognition
embedded in predictive
programming and artwork
are all intrinsically
related and point
to one source of intelligence.
>>NOORY: Is there
a bigger picture
here that we're not seeing?
>>BICKFORD: Well, I think the
bigger picture's becoming more
emergent, and I see that
thinkers like Sheldrake are
moving out of the fringe and
are gradually becoming more--
are becoming taken seriously.
There's a large number of
biologists, mathematicians,
and genomists now that
question the validity
of Darwinian evolution and
see something else going on.
I believe that adaptations,
evolution, creation,
precognition are all
evidences of interaction
with what may exist and interact
with us through what Sheldrake
describes as the
morphogenetic field.
>>NOORY: Can we train
people for precognition?
>>BICKFORD: It seems like
certainly, some people
have more of a conscious
ability to tap into that.
So I believe that there
are both scientific methods
and spiritual methods
to become more
sensitive to that source of
intelligence that's mysterious.
>>NOORY: Once as an individual
you understand all this,
what do you see for
the big picture?
>>BICKFORD: I believe
that we can collectively--
I wouldn't say, put my
trust in any one person
with precognition, and
then base my life on that.
But I believe that
collectively, we
can take a look at patterns
emergent in dreams, artwork,
even Hollywood
films and map those
onto larger patterns
that could inform
the way we live our lives.
I think that there's also a
spiritual component to this
that can be rather reassuring.
>>NOORY: How so?
>>BICKFORD: Well, there's a
saying in the Gospel of Thomas
that I like, a Gnostic
text, where Christ says,
let one seek until one finds.
When you find,
you'll be troubled.
After you're troubled, you
will be amazed or in awe,
and then you will
reign over all.
And I take this to be
similar to a pattern that's
embedded in Dante's
"Divine Comedy"
where an individual leaves
the blissfully ignorant life
and travels into
inferno, and purgatory,
and on into paradise.
I see sometimes a spiritual
awakening or a confrontation
with cognitive dissonance can
cause people to be troubled.
The world isn't quite
what I thought it was,
and at first, this can bring up
a lot of unanswered questions
that trouble someone that's
curious and investigative
like myself.
However, there is a
reassurance in that there
seems to be a type of
intelligence that's benevolent
and a faculty with communicating
with something like the higher
self or the higher mind that
wants what's best for us.
I think of that
simulation theory
that Philip K Dick
talked about as being
like a choose your
own adventure novel,
and we have potential outcomes.
And ultimately in the story of
our life that we're living out,
there's many different
potentialities.
And if we interact holistically
and in a serious way
with this source of the
co-creative faculty,
we can choose a better
life for ourselves
by coming into mindfulness with
what this is trying to tell us.
It seems like
we're being warned,
and we're being given advice.
So we're entering
into an age where
let's say people are concerned
about a global pandemic,
and we're covering
up our mouths.
We're blocking our breath.
The symbolic language here would
be, we've got a bad breath.
We've got a bad spirit.
The bad ruach, a bad pneuma.
So it's troubling, but
it's also empowering.
The first step to
solving a problem
is understanding
what the problem is,
and I believe that it's not
just scientific and material,
but a spiritual problem.
>>NOORY: Jason,
you had mentioned
artwork tied into some of this.
How does that relate?
>>BICKFORD: Well, the
predictive programming
doesn't just appear in Hollywood
productions or television.
I have found evidence that
Renaissance artists, as well as
artists as recent
as 20th century
illustrators like
Norman Rockwell,
have symbolism that's
hidden and embedded
in their artwork in a way that
I believe the artists weren't
consciously aware of.
And I found now
over 100 examples
of classic and
modern art embedding
symbolism that belies--
>>NOORY: Where did it come from?
>>BICKFORD: Again, I would say
that the precognition as well
as the--
>>NOORY: Like the "Back
to the Future" movie?
>>BICKFORD: I believe that
when artists feel inspired,
and they tap into that
source of intuition,
or they use symbolism
from dreams in order
to create something,
very often, just
like in scientific
breakthroughs,
people can't always explain
where the idea comes from.
But then later,
it's found useful.
I believe that these artists
are getting an intuition
from a source that is
outside of our time and space
and has a look at the future.
>>NOORY: You produced a
clip and some examples
of precognitive artwork.
>>BICKFORD: I'm going to
highlight some precognition
in predictive art using what
I call the overlays method.
We'll begin with
Goya's 1826 painting,
"Milkmaid of Bordeaux."
I duplicate the image, mirror
it, and reduce the opacity,
and immediately, I see something
like a serpent or naga spirit.
As I slide this image
across its mirror,
there is the DC Comics
character Swamp Thing 150 years
before he was created.
And at the center of his
face is fully articulated
Masonic iconography.
There's loads of
other creatures here.
This is just a sampling.
We see a bird something, like
a swallow or a heron there.
As I rotate the image and
layer it on top of itself,
I see a number of creatures.
Here's a winged bird man-type
creature with arms and legs,
a fully articulated face.
While I was creating
that Swamp Thing image,
I'd noticed when I look
at it from a right angle,
there's something like a beast
with a large mouth chomping
down there.
It's worth pointing out
here that Swamp Thing
seems to have amputated
arms and is leaking
water out of his humerus bones.
So we're draining
the Swamp Thing.
There's layers of predictive
iconography and symbolism
in there.
That's just a taste.
Let's take a look at the
infamous Christ on the Cross
etching from Durer.
In 1505, he created
this iconic image.
I reduced the opacity
of a duplicate,
mirror it, slide
it across itself,
and we see that
date is now 2021.
And there is a bit of a devil,
a demon, maybe an Antichrist.
The opposite of Christ
would be the Antichrist.
So we have an Antichrist as
well as a pagan pan, a rabbit.
And, well, Christ begins
to look a bit like a clown.
I'm thinking of
Joaquin Phoenix playing
Christ and Mary Magdalene, and
then six months later, playing
the Joker.
The 1505 looks like ISOS
possibly, and in the mirror,
of course, that's 2021.
So possibly, we're
looking at symbolism
that's precognitive
that we're in the age
or spirit of the Antichrist.
Christ said to spread the good
news and love one another,
and here we are more polarized
and hateful than ever
at the moment.
There's also some
imagery that looks
like Smokey the Bear as well as
some other cartoon characters,
and I'm reminded of the
forest fires and the wildfires
across the West Coast in the US.
There's other etchings
of Christ by Durer
that also have some teddy bear
and bear symbolism as well as
some other Masonic iconography.
I found it interesting when we
invert Christ and then mirror
this signature of Durer.
He uses his initials here.
We get a little billy
goat face there.
It's almost like a
little bit of a tell.
If you see that, then you
know you're onto something.
So here we are in the age of the
Antichrist, polarized, hateful,
and this seems to be a bit
of a co-created warning.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
Dramatic.
>>BICKFORD: We could
spend hours going
through the imagery I found.
That was just a brief
sample, but there this--
this is far beyond
something like a Rorschach--
>>NOORY: When what
was that made?
>>BICKFORD: Now, that painting
was made in 1505, it stated.
>>NOORY: And clearly,
there was a 2021 backward.
You could see that up
there in the corner.
>>BICKFORD: Yeah, I discovered
this phenomenon in 2017.
I would say actually
a better descriptor
would be I was shown in
a moment of inspiration,
so I don't take complete
credit for that.
But I believe that let's
say a higher self or form
of intelligence that
was assisting Albrecht
Durer and Francisco Goya.
I found this in
Michelangelo and da Vinci.
>>NOORY: All of them?
>>BICKFORD: And even
Norman Rockwell.
It continues on into the
20th and 21st century.
I believe that--
>>NOORY: Is it scary?
>>BICKFORD: The first time I saw
this phenomenon, I got chills,
but I wasn't scared.
I felt a calmness.
I would actually describe it
as a spiritual experience.
>>NOORY: There's a message
there, Jason, somewhere.
>>BICKFORD: There is.
There seems to be warnings,
but there's also a reassuring--
I find it reassuring that
we have an opportunity
to co-create or participate
with this form of intelligence.
And if it's going out
of its way to warn us,
it seems to be benevolent.
>>NOORY: You think
that's what it's doing?
>>BICKFORD: I believe that
there's this could be--
let's say Albrecht Durer
wasn't trying to warn us,
but while he's tapping into
the icon of Christ and creating
that artwork, this could
be a perfect opportunity
for the co-creative faculty as
I refer to it to inspire Durer
to create forms and illustrate
images that have this
embedded--
Unbeknownst to Albrecht Durer
or any of the other artists
I found.
I believe that like I said,
it's a little bit of a tell.
It's like something is
pulling back the curtain.
It seems like something
is consciously
allowing us to see
some of the predictive
and, let's say, less
chaotic nature of our world.
>>NOORY: What is it trying
to tell us or warn us?
>>BICKFORD: I believe that we
have an incredible co-creative
power that is--
well, I'm reminded
of the discovery
of quantum physics almost
a century ago showed us
that the type of attention
that we pay to this world
changes this world.
And I believe that the
world is, let's say,
less chaotic and
material than we realize.
And that there's a
preferred order to things
that we've moved away
from, and I believe
that we're co-creating
a world that
has less love, understanding,
and order to it at the moment.
And it's possible
for us to get back
to that more holistic,
co-creative existence
that Owen Barfield
articulated and one
he's talking about the
fossils of consciousness.
>>NOORY: Do you
predict the future?
>>BICKFORD: I have speculated
about future events
and been right based on looking
at predictive programming
after studying predictive
programming after the fact.
It's one thing to say,
there's symbolism for 9/11
in a myriad of--
>>NOORY: Before 9/11?
>>BICKFORD: No.
I don't know of anybody who--
>>NOORY: It's always
after the fact?
>>BICKFORD: It's
always after the fact.
Now, I've had some
social media outlets
that unfortunately
got deplatformed
for one thing or the other.
>>NOORY: I understand.
That happens.
>>BICKFORD: But I made a name
for myself on social media
for speculating
about some things.
I saw some Super Bowl outcomes
and Super Bowl scores embedded
in Hollywood entertainments.
>>NOORY: I got to
take you to Vegas.
>>BICKFORD: I had imagine that--
well, Vegas doesn't allow you
to predict the exact score
of the Super Bowl.
The odds would be so incredible
that if you got lucky enough
to do it--
>>NOORY: You'd be huge.
>>BICKFORD: You'd
own the casino,
so they can't afford
to risk those odds.
But I have pointed
towards symbolism emergent
in the media that seemed to
point towards mass shootings.
I'll give you an example.
In the summer of 2017,
I produced some media
that said that there was various
different things like the TV
show "The Walking Dead" as
well as particular movies that
were out at the time seemed
to have emergent patterns.
And the pattern I was
seeing was a mass shooting
at a fairgrounds.
And in the area I lived
in at in Massachusetts,
I avoided this large
fairground event
that comes about every year
called The Big E because I
was concerned
that, based on what
predictive programming showed
me before, I told my friends,
I'm worried about a mass
shooting at a fairgrounds.
And I posted some material
about that to YouTube
in August of 2017.
And lo and behold, less
than two months later,
there was a mass shooting
in Nevada at a fairgrounds.
I believe this is
where groups of people
who are sharing any kind
of pattern recognition,
premonitions, or precognition.
If you were to collate
a number of people
who have a faculty
with this, you
might be able to zero in on
events before they happen.
>>NOORY: Jason, how do
people track your work?
How do they find you?
>>BICKFORD: I'm on YouTube
under my name, Jason Bickford.
Symbols, patterns, and gnosis.
I also have a web page,
GnosticonPress.com,
and I'm on Patreon.com/Bickford.
>>NOORY: All right.
Well, thank you.
Makes you think, doesn't it?
>>BICKFORD: It does.
We live in a world
that is interactive,
I believe, and far more
interesting than just a cold,
mechanical universe.
>>NOORY: Jason, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>BICKFORD: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: All kinds of symbolism
and things if you look for it,
and if you look for it,
you may find something
that you might not want to see.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]